# Medical Database with User Interface Project
### By Jacklyn O'Brien

For my final project in CS 2500: Introduction to Database Systems at the Unversity of Vermont, I created an interface application to interact with records from a fictional doctor’s office, which I named Burlington Health Center, using the sqlite3 and matplotlib.pyplot functions in Python. I created my dataset with Python; this code is located in database.py, and the finished database is detailed in clinicData.db. It consists of four tables: Patient, having information on the patients the office provides care for; Provider, holding identification and contact information of providers employed by the practice; Appointment, containing the patient seen, provider seeing them, and diagnosis; and Bill, outlining the patient seen and the amount owed. I used the datetime and random packages in Python to generate random integers for rows when needed, such as dates of birth and phone numbers. I also used ChatGPT to generate the names of providers and patients, and the patients’ street addresses.

I created a command-line application using several small functions (app_functions.py) and a main function (app_main.py). Users of this application can add, remove, or modify, or search for records in any table. One could also compute the mean, median, minimum, maximum, or mean standard deviation of the amounts of all the bills in the database, or of the bills for a specific patient. Finally, one can view the distribution of bill amounts in a histogram, or the distribution of appointments per provider.

